# junas: vim Distribution based on Janus

junas is based on Janus.  To get started, clone junas to ~/.vim

    mv .vim .vim.original
    git clone https://github.com/HeSYINUvSBZfxqA/junas .vim

Then add this to the top of your ~/.vimrc

    " source junas
    source ~/.vim/junas

    " install whatever bundles over the net
    call Bundle(["The_NERD_tree", "surround", "repeat", "Rainbow_Parenthesis", "The_NERD_Commenter", "haml.zip", "Markdown_syntax", "matchit.zip", "fugitive", "eregex"])

    " map whatever key to leader
    let mapleader = ","

    " use the xoria256 color scheme (included)
    colorscheme xoria256

    " and anything else you want to override or set

# Janus: Carlhuda's vim Distribution

This is a basic distribution of vim plugins and tools intended to be run
on top of the latest MacVIM snapshot.

We (Carl and Yehuda) both use this distribution for our own use, and
welcome patches and contributions to help make it an effective way to
get started with vim and then use it productively for years to come.

At present, we are still learning to use vim ourselves, so you should
anticipate a period of rapid development while we get a handle on the
best tools for the job. So far, we have mostly integrated existing
plugins and tools, and we anticipate to continue doing so while also
writing our own plugins as appropriate.

In general, you can expect that the tools we use work well together and
that we have given careful thought to the experience of using MacVIM
with the tools in question. If you run into an issue using it, please
report an issue to the issue tracker.

# Intro to VIM

Here's some tips if you've never used VIM before:

## Tutorials

* Type `vimtutor` into a shell to go through a brief interactive
  tutorial inside VIM.
* Read the slides at [VIM: Walking Without Crutches](http://walking-without-crutches.heroku.com/#1).
* Watch the screencasts at [vimcasts.org](http://vimcasts.org/)
* Watch Derek Wyatt's energetic tutorial videos at [his site](http://www.derekwyatt.org/vim/vim-tutorial-videos/)
* Read wycats' perspective on learning vim at
  [Everyone who tried to convince me to use vim was wrong](http://yehudakatz.com/2010/07/29/everyone-who-tried-to-convince-me-to-use-vim-was-wrong/)
* Read this and other answers to a question about vim at StackOverflow:
  [Your problem with Vim is that you don't grok vi](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1218390/what-is-your-most-productive-shortcut-with-vim/1220118#1220118)

## Modes

* VIM has two modes:
  * insert mode- stuff you type is added to the buffer
  * normal mode- keys you hit are interpretted as commands
* To enter insert mode, hit `i`
* To exit insert mode, hit `<ESC>`

## Useful commands

* Use `:q` to exit vim
* Certain commands are prefixed with a `<Leader>` key, which maps to \\
  by default. Use `let mapleader = ","` to change this.
* Keyboard [cheat sheet](http://walking-without-crutches.heroku.com/image/images/vi-vim-cheat-sheet.png).

# Features

This vim distribution includes a number of packages built by others.

## Base Customizations

Ships with a number of basic customizations for vim:

* Line numbers
* Ruler (line and column numbers)
* No wrap (turn off per-buffer via set :wrap)
* Soft 2-space tabs, and default hard tabs to 2 spaces
* Make searching highlighted, incremental, and case insensitive unless a
  capital letter is used
* Always show a status line
* Allow backspacing over everything (identations, eol, and start
  characters) in insert mode
* `<Leader>e` expands to `:e {directory of current file}/` (open in the
  current buffer)
* `<Leader>tr` expands to `:te {directory of current file}/` (open in a
  new MacVIM tab)
* `<C-P>` inserts the directory of the current file into a command

## Additional Syntaxes

Ships with a few additional syntaxes:

* Markdown (bound to \*.markdown, \*.md, \*.mk, and \*.mkd))
* Mustache (bound to \*.mustache)
* Haml (bound to \*.haml)
* Sass (bound to \*.sass)
* SCSS (bound to \*.scss)
* An improved JavaScript syntax (bound to \*.js)
* Map Gemfile, Rakefile, Vagrantfile and Thorfile to Ruby

## Color schemes

Includes the vim color scheme xoria256.

